---
layout: post
title:      "**Another path**"
date:       2019-11-20 04:25:37 +0000
permalink:  another_path
---


Before I start rambling about my new path of which why I chose to become a coder I would like to introduce myself.  My name is Henry Phan, and keep in mind that everything I'm about to tell you about myself I have always been an introvert.  Public speaking has never been my strong suite.  My voice begins to shake and rattle.  You can hear how nervous I really am and to top it off.  I’m a little nervous writing just about it.

Believe it or not.  My first profession was a hairstylist and I did hair for about 10 years.  As my skills increased, sadly my hair did not.  That’s right!  I started losing my hair at a pretty young age.  Soon, I felt as if new clients were judging me by my cover.  I mean, would you choose a dentist to work on your teeth if he or she had horrid hygiene?  I don't blame anyone for it but it definitely de-railed my path as a hairstylist.  Even though talking to anyone has never been my strong suite.  Something about having a client in my chair calmed my nerves or maybe because it was usually a 1:1 conversation and not in front of an audience.  Whatever it may be after 10 years of doing hair I was still an introvert but not all was lost.  I feel like acquired this knack for attention to detail.  

After being de-railed from the path of a hairstylist I took some classes and my next professional path was to become drafter.  I wanted to come closer to a profession that was more tech savvy.  Something I’ve had more of a passion for and still, utilize my acquired skill as a hairstylist.  I was lucky enough to land a pretty nice job at an architectural firm.  We designed and built kitchen and bathrooms for higher end hotels.  I really enjoyed that job as I was able to work with a pretty powerful pc to draw and render constantly.  However, the firm I was with got hit hard pretty hard when the economy just plummeted.  So hard that everyone in the firm was unemployed.  With the economy going down it was extremely difficult to gain a decent drafting position.  I tried startups with some of my ex-coworkers and that fell short considering the economy was not on our side nor was my savings.  I had to do something and that something had to come sooner than later.  

Do you ever feel like when something bad happens, it just feels like it will never end?  Well, that was exactly how I was feeling.  My bank account is running low and finding a job seemed to be impossible.  I began to get desperate and passed out my resume to all types of jobs and lucky enough was still able to do a little bit of hair to bring food to the table.  Things finally took a turn for the better and I received a call from a sewing company that wanted to use my skill as a cad drafter.  I was brought in to make some drawing to produce kevlar vest.  Even though I was hired.  The kevlar vest contract never fell through.  With that being said, my position as a drafter was no longer needed and I pretty much floated around learning everything I could.  The sewing company I was with would produce mainly backpacks.  We had some, really good contracts with the military and other top brand names you would see at REI.  Definitely not what I had in mind when I was talking about landing a job that is closer to tech.  But it was a job that kept my family and I afloat.  

After two years at the sewing factory I was promoted to operations manager and a year after that, promoted again to director of operations.  Ultimately, it was a better title which along came with much more responsibility that took even more time away from my family.  Even though the pay was good enough to keep my better half at home with our daughter.  I did not have the privilege to spend much time with the ones most important to me.  Soon, I come to find out that my wife is pregnant, and our family will have an addition to our family of 3.  As thrilled as I was at the time.  My worries of not having enough time for my family became a big issue.  My loving wife who has always been by my side through thick and thin. Even when we were just living off ramen and congee.  She kept this positive attitude and the look in her eyes told me she wasn’t worried one bit.  She believes in me no matter the circumstance and situation we are in.  Which lead me to this fork in life.  I’m human and I selfish.  I want more!!! I want to be stable or better and be able to have time to spend with my family.  As I’ve pretty much capped out at where I was at. I’m not able to achieve my selfish goals.  Time was not on my side because months will fly by and the addition to our family will be here. 

Not much later I dabbled upon a coding podcast (CodeNewbie).  I would listen to everyone’s amazing stories to the point that I couldn’t resist and pitched this idea to my wife.   I told her, “I’m going to leave my job and go all in to learn how to code”.  Always so supportive she, instantly agreed with me and is behind me all the way.  I have to say I never knew being an introvert would hurt me as a coder.  However, I do like a challenge and overcoming one of my biggest fear has to be one of the greatest challenges to overcome.  

Even though this is only the beginning of my journey I already feel like I’m making the right decision.  Even as an introvert, I have met so many wonderful people two weeks in of boot camp.  With all of this, leads me to my new path in life that I’m working to pave for my selfishness reasons and family.

